# Important Concepts of JavaScript. 



JavaScript is a dynamic computer programming language. It is lightweight and most commonly used as a part of web pages, whose implementations allow client-side script to interact with the user and make dynamic pages. It is an interpreted programming language with object-oriented capabilities.

JavaScript was first known as LiveScript, but Netscape changed its name to JavaScript, possibly because of the excitement being generated by Java. JavaScript made its first appearance in Netscape 2.0 in 1995 with the name LiveScript. The general-purpose core of the language has been embedded in Netscape, Internet Explorer, and other web browsers.

Advantages of JavaScript, The merits of using JavaScript are −

1.Less server interaction − You can validate user input before sending the page off to the server. This saves server traffic, which means less load on your server.

2.Immediate feedback to the visitors − They don't have to wait for a page reload to see if they have forgotten to enter something.

3.Increased interactivity − You can create interfaces that react when the user hovers over them with a mouse or activates them via the keyboard.

4.Richer interfaces − You can use JavaScript to include such items as drag-and-drop components and sliders to give a Rich Interface to your site visitors.

Limitations of JavaScript-

1.We cannot treat JavaScript as a full-fledged programming language. It lacks the following important features −

2.Client-side JavaScript does not allow the reading or writing of files. This has been kept for security reason.

3.JavaScript cannot be used for networking applications because there is no such support available.

4.JavaScript doesn't have any multi-threading or multiprocessor capabilities.

# JavaScript single-threaded model
JavaScript is a single-threaded programming language. This means that JavaScript can do only one thing at a single point in time.
The JavaScript engine executes a script from the top of the file and works its way down. It creates the execution contexts, pushes, and pops functions onto and off the call stack in the execution phase. 

If a function takes a long time to execute, you cannot interact with the web browser during the function’s execution because the page hangs.
A function that takes a long time to complete is called a blocking function. Technically, a blocking function blocks all the interactions on the webpage, such as mouse click.


[Useful website](https://www.javascripttutorial.net/javascript-event-loop/)
